-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to
create a NodePort service for our ReplicaSet
and then test it, okay?
So let's go back to our Visual Studio Core
and go to our Kube-based definition
and then copy it in our ReplicaSet NodePort service.
As we know for our type of service we are going to create
is Service and its version is V1
and the name of this service is
ReplicaSet
NodePort service.
And for any service,
the following three are the high level things,
which is nothing but
Type,
Selector,
and
Ports, right?
So now let's start with the type.
The NodePort service we are going to create,
so let's mark it as NodePort.
And let's complete Ports before going to Selector, okay?
So now Ports. We are going to have a Ports now.
So it is list of ports.
So
now it is going to be
name is http.
And my port name, so this is the port name,
and it is going to be eight, 80.
And we are going to define our targetPort,
which is our ContainerPort is 80.
And NodePort, which is nothing but on the worker node
what port you want to use.
You can define it.
So I am going to say 31232.
For our pod NodePort service we use 31231.
Here we are using 31232.
So now the selector, again, as usual,
go to your ReplicaSet definition
and then this is the label you have in your PodTemplate.
So let's get that.
And then to these pods, it need to load balance, right?
You are respect to service,
need to load balance or send the traffic
to those respective pods, okay?
So then you need to identify the pods
based on a selector, okay?
So that is nothing but label selector.
So it is going to be myapp2, okay?
So now your NodePort ReplicaSet service is created.
So let's go ahead and then create that now.
Kubectl
Apply
03, right?
And if any error it is going to throw here,
any definition error or something, but ideally no error.
So get svc.
It looks good.
So three one, with 31232 our ReplicaSet NodePort set,
NodePort service got created.
So we can go ahead and then say
get nodes -o wide
and get the public IP and then access it with 31232.
So if you remember here, so we are accessing 31231,
with the V1 application with the plane port
and with the ReplicaSet we are going to say 31232, okay?
And we should have a V2 version of application.
So with the plane pod we got V1
and then with ReplicaSet we got V2, okay?
So this completes the creation
of ReplicaSet definition using YAML.
So in our next lecture, we'll focus on deployment.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.